Hello everyone, today we are gonna talk about docker, an open platform for developing, shipping, and running applications.

* CHANGE PAGE TO CONTENTS *

As i commented, heres a list of contents which im going to explain.

* CHANGE PAGE TO 1 *

The fist point is: What is docker?
As you may imagine, docker is a lightweight open-source platform used for develope and test applications. It works by images, which are simple files that defines information like the O.S and other command for the O.S
Then, we he have containers, another type of element which houses the O.S and os built from an image.

* CHANGE PAGE TO 2 *

Well, why is the most used?. Its because a couple of features.
1 - Portability: Containers are enviroment-independent where applications run always the same way.
2 - Efficiency: Containers share the host Kernel, which means less needed storage and resources.
3 - Scalability: Easy to manage applications at any scale.

* CHANGE TO PAGE 3 *


Advantages and disadvantages.

On the advantages we have what we talked before: Is portable, efficient and is quick and easy to deploy.
And in the other side we have the disadvantages: It shares kernel, which can pose security risks, it has a hard learning and requires constant attention.

* CHANGE TO PAGE 4 *

Now lets make a simple demostration of it comparing it to Virtual machines, for example VirtualBox.

This one creates one O.S and its kernel for each machine which needs high storage and medium-high resources. The good point is that has a very good isolation to host.

On the other face we have Docker, which shares kernel and sometimes the O.S from the host. It uses low storage and resources.
The best point from this tool is that has a public repository where you can download and install images and containers using only 1 command.

In conclussion, Docker is better for building and testing applications, but Virtual Machines are better to deployment because of its security.

And thats it! thank you everyone for your attention, i hope you liked it and learned something more about docker.